# 5.1: Implement networking features and connectivity

## Configure a VPC (for example, subnets, route tables, network ACLs, security groups, NAT gateway, internet gateway)

### Custom VPC

- VPC - 1 account & 1 region --> Created in a region and can be used in all AZs
- Isolated networks - problems are isolated. Nothing IN or OUT without explicit configuration.
- Flexible Configuration
- Shared or dedicated hardware
- How many regions will the buniness populate. E.g. 3 regions US, 1 Europe, 1 Oceania. 5X2  4 Accounts = 40 ips.
- Start at 10 14 
Avoid common ranges. 
- 1 default VPC per region but multiple Custom
- Number of default VPCs subnets determined by the of availability zones(AZs)   
- VPC can not communicate unless specific allowed
- Regional Resiliant - Communication done through VPC CIDR (define IP range)
Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR) is an IP address allocation method that improves data routing efficiency on the internet. Every machine, server, and end-user device that connects to the internet has a unique number, called an IP address, associated with it. Devices find and communicate with one another by using these IP addresses. Organizations use CIDR to allocate IP addresses flexibly and efficiently in their networks.
- Imagine a Cake is a VPC, and Subnets are pieces of the cake. VPC is in a region(us-east-1) and subnets 
distributed in availability zones. (us-east-1a, us-east-1b us-east-1c)
What is CIDR?
Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR) is an IP address allocation method that improves data routing efficiency on the internet. Every machine, server, and end-user device that connects to the internet has a unique number, called an IP address, associated with it. Devices find and communicate with one another by using these IP addresses. Organizations use CIDR to allocate IP addresses flexibly and efficiently in their networks.

What are the different IP address formats?
An IP address has two parts:(host and newwork)

The network address is a series of numerical digits pointing to the network's unique identifier 
The host address is a series of numbers indicating the host or individual device identifier on the network
Until the early 1990s, IP addresses were allocated using the classful addressing system. The total length of the address was fixed, and the number of bits allocated to the network and host portions were also fixed.



Classful addresses
An IPv4 address consists of 32 bits. Each string of numbers separated by the period consists of 8 bits, 
represented by 0 to 255 in numerical forms. Organizations could purchase three classes of IPv4 addresses. 

Class A
A Class A IPv4 address has 8 network prefix bits. For example, consider 44.0.0.1, where 44 is the network address and 0.0.1 is the host address.

Class B
A Class B IPv4 address has 16 network prefix bits. For example, consider 128.16.0.2, where 128.16 is the network address and 0.2 is the host address.

Class C
A Class C IPv4 address has 24 network prefix bits. For instance, consider 192.168.1.100, where 192.168.1 is the network address and 100 is the host address. 

Classless addresses
Classless or Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR) addresses use variable length subnet masking (VLSM) 
to alter the ratio between the network and host address bits in an IP address. |
A subnet mask is a set of identifiers that returns the network address’s value from the IP address by turning the host address into zeroes. 

A VLSM sequence allows network administrators to break down an IP address space into subnets of various sizes. Each subnet can have a flexible host count and a limited number of IP addresses. 
A CIDR IP address appends a suffix value stating the number of network address prefix bits to a normal IP address.

For example, 192.0.2.0/24 is an IPv4 CIDR address where the first 24 bits, or 192.0.2, is the network address. 

What are the limitations of classful IP addressing that CIDR overcomes?
Before Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR), IP addresses were classful and created inefficiencies. 
We discuss some of these shortcomings next. 

Inflexible IP addressing
In a classful addressing system, each class supported a fixed number of devices:

Class A supported 16,777,214 hosts
Class B supported 65,534 hosts
Class C supported 254 hosts

The classful arrangement was inefficient when allocating IP addresses and led to a waste of IP address spaces.

For example, an organization with 300 devices couldn’t have used a Class C IP address, which only permitted 254 devices. So, the organization would’ve been forced to apply for a Class B IP address, which provided 65,534 unique host addresses. However, only 300 devices would’ve been connected, which would’ve left 65,234 unused IP address spaces.
 Configure private connectivity (for example, Systems Manager Session Manager, VPC endpoints, VPC peering, VPN).
 Configure AWS network protection services (for example, AWS WAF, AWS Shield).
