# 1.1 Implement metrics, alarms, and filters by using AWS monitoring and logging services

## 1 Identify, collect, analyze, and export logs (for example, Amazon CloudWatch Logs, CloudWatch Logs Insights, AWS CloudTrail logs).
### Cloud Watch
- Monitoring Collection
-- Logs - app logs, lambda Logs 
-- Metrics - variable that is being monitored. e.g data or memory usage
-- Events - trigger event based on a condition. e.g every hour take a snapshot of the server, backups? 
-- Alarms - trigger notifications based on metrics when breaching a threshold.    
Lab Running a EC2 Instance and adding alarm: https://catalog.us-east-1.prod.workshops.aws/workshops/f3a3e2bd-e1d5-49de-b8e6-dac361842e76/en-US/basic-modules/40-monitoring

-- Dashboard - visualizations based on metrics
-- Container - collects and aggregates monitor microservices and containers 
-- Service Lens - visualize and analyze health and performance of app in a single place.
-- Insights - 
-- Syntetics - test your apps to see if they are broken
-- Contributor Insights

[Cloud Watch Diagram](images/Cloudwatch.png "Cloud Watch")

### Observability
The ability to measure and understand how internal systems​ work. Answer questions regarding performance, tolerance,​ security, and faults with a system/application.​
- Metrics: number that is measured overtime
- Logs: text file that contains events that happened at certain time
- Traces: history of request travels through apps/services so we can pinpoint performance or failure   
-  
## 1.2 Collect metrics and logs by using the CloudWatch agent.
## 1.3 Create CloudWatch alarms.
## 1.4 Create metric filters.
## 1.5 Create CloudWatch dashboards.
## 1.6 Configure notifications (for example, Amazon Simple Notification Service [Amazon SNS], Service Quotas, CloudWatch alarms, AWS Health events)